Organized collections of computer data and instructions are known as computer software. Computer software can be broken up into two categories. System software and Application Software. Without software, computer hardware would be nearly useless.
A question that is often brought up when discussing computer software and hardware is the concept of the chicken and egg theory. This theory simply is how do you install software on a computer before an operating system is installed? The solution is called Firmware. Firmware is software that is preinstalled onto memory so that the hardware knows how to complete basic tasks. A good example of this would be the BIOS on a motherboard. Modern computers include a user interface system preinstalled on motherboards …show more content…
They are generally focused on increasing productivity and simplifying general tasks. Business software is mostly Microsoft Office, Apple’s iWork, Open Office or Adobe Suites. Distinctive components of businesses software revolve around word processing, spreadsheets, presentations, database management, and email. Microsoft Office is the most popular business application suite. Microsoft word is the most popular application in the business world and is Microsoft’s word processor. Excel is the spreadsheet powerhouse and PowerPoint is the top software for presentations. Microsoft Access is Microsoft’s software within the office suite that allows end users to modify and assign tasks within a system database. Outlook is the favorable email software among modern PC users. The typical personal software consists of programs such as Skype, multimedia players, TurboTax, and games. Personal software typically is developed for entertainment functionality for the end user. Modern computers are able to achieve high speed and these applications are becoming more complex. Applications can be used to help the end user complete tasks. As we move into further generations of computing the general basis of applications will rise intensely. Some of these applications interact directly with the database to apprehend and evaluate
